= ws-discovery-client =

Client-side of the Python implementation of service discovery bootstrapping through WS-Discovery.

== Usage: ==

<pre>docker build -t ws-discovery-client .
docker run \
       --rm \
       --network host \
       --env TIMEOUT=&quot;2.0&quot; \
       --name ws-discovery-client \
       ws-discovery-client</pre>
== Environment variables ==

=== TIMEOUT ===

Time to be spent, in seconds, searching for the given service. Accepts floats.

'''Default''': <code>2.0</code> (two seconds).

Please note that the container will run longer than the given timeout even when given very low values as there is overhead in starting and stopping, particularly on slow hardware.

== Using Macvlan ==

In case you prefer not to use <code>--network host</code>, you may use a macvlan network driver which should allow you to perform multicast from Docker if your engine supports it.

The network interface information should be acquired by using your operating system's tools (e.g. <code>ip address</code>)

<ul>
<li><p>Remove the network if you have done this before and want to reconfigure, otherwise skip.</p>
<pre>docker network rm mcast_net</pre></li>
<li><p>Create the network (get the information from your OS). The name of the network is <code>mcast_net</code>, you may change that to anything you prefer.</p>
<pre>docker network create -d macvlan \
        -o parent=eth0 \
        --subnet=192.168.0.0/24 \
        --gateway=192.168.0.1 \
        mcast_net</pre></li>
<li><p>Re-build the container if necessary (note that the build step is independent of the network you will use when running it).</p>
<pre>docker build -t ws-discovery-client .   </pre></li>
<li><p>Run the container selecting the created network and an IP which falls under the correct network segment (e.g. your current IP + 10).</p>
<pre>docker run \
   --rm \
   --network mcast_net \
   --ip 192.168.0.120 \
   --env TIMEOUT=&quot;1.0&quot; \
   --name ws-discovery-client \
   ws-discovery-client</pre></li></ul>

