= Swagger generator =

This is a tool for extracting documentation from the JAX-RS implementation of the core services. All of the services use JAX-RS and therefore all can be extracted.

''Please note that this is just a containerization around Sebastian Daschner's thesis result <code>jaxrs-analyzer</code> released under the Apache-2.0 license applied to the Arrowhead Framework 4.0 lightweight core services.''

== Usage ==

First, we need to build the container if we haven't done so already.

<pre>docker build --tag ahf-doc-generator .</pre>
Then, we will need a directory on which to store our output file(s).

<pre>mkdir -p out</pre>
Finally, we run the container and direct the output to the desired file path.

<pre>docker run --rm -it ahf-doc-generator &gt; out/arrowhead-core.json</pre>
This file can be then used or imported into a number of different applications and web sites, including Postman, SoapUI, Swagger UI, etc.

The quickest way to make the most out of this file is to open it in [https://editor.swagger.io/ the online Swagger Editor]. It will let us view all the possible end-points, generate client code, and edit the actual file to configure it as necessary.

== Usages of Swagger/OpenAPI file ==

=== Simple and quick documentation ===

You can generate a simple HTML documentation page using the specification obtained above.

<pre>docker run --rm -v &quot;${PWD}/out&quot;:/local \
    swaggerapi/swagger-codegen-cli generate \
    -i /local/arrowhead-core.json \
    -l &quot;html&quot; \
    -o &quot;/local/html&quot; \
    -DappName=&quot;Arrowhead Framework 4.0&quot; \
    -DappDescription=&quot;Arrowhead Framework 4.0 - Lightweight&quot; \
    -DinfoUrl=&quot;https://forge.soa4d.org/plugins/mediawiki/wiki/arrowhead-f/index.php/Arrowhead_Framework_Wiki&quot; \
    -DinfoEmail=&quot;info@arrowhead.eu&quot;
sudo chown -R &quot;$(id -u):$(id -g)&quot; out</pre>
An alternative format, which contains sample code can be generated instead.

<pre>docker run --rm -v &quot;${PWD}/out&quot;:/local \
    swaggerapi/swagger-codegen-cli generate \
    -i /local/arrowhead-core.json \
    -l &quot;html2&quot; \
    -o &quot;/local/html2&quot; \
    -DappName=&quot;Arrowhead Framework 4.0&quot; \
    -DappDescription=&quot;Arrowhead Framework 4.0 - Lightweight&quot; \
    -DinfoUrl=&quot;https://forge.soa4d.org/plugins/mediawiki/wiki/arrowhead-f/index.php/Arrowhead_Framework_Wiki&quot; \
    -DinfoEmail=&quot;info@arrowhead.eu&quot;
sudo chown -R &quot;$(id -u):$(id -g)&quot; out</pre>
The code samples depend on code which [[#Client%20code%20stub%20generation|can be generated with this same method]].

=== Swagger UI ===

Swagger UI is a user-friendly web-based visual documentation format for any HTTP-based API. More information, including a [https://petstore.swagger.io/ live demo] can be found [https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/ here].

This container can generate a Swagger UI page by passing <code>gendoc</code> as a parameter.

To get the files into a (previously created) directory called <code>out</code>, all we have to do is run the following command.

<pre>docker run --rm -it ahf-doc-generator gendoc | base64 -di | tar -C out -xf -</pre>
If you are curious about the purpose of <code>base64</code> and <code>tar</code> there: This is used to output all the resulting files without having to mount a Docker volume.

If you wanted to share these files with others, you could just get the tarball file as follows.

<pre>docker run --rm -it ahf-doc-generator gendoc | base64 -di &gt; out/ahf-ui.tar</pre>
Note: The full capabilities of Swagger UI might not be available because the current version of Arrowhead does not support CORS, which is necessary for web applications (such as Swagger UI). Specifically, &quot;try it out&quot; will not work on most browsers unless you do ''hacky stuff''.

=== Client code stub generation ===

To bootstrap your development process, you can generate client code by using the Swagger specification file obtained above. One way to achieve this has already been mentioned.

Another way, which does not require a browser, is by running the following commands.

First we need the <code>openapi-generator-cli</code> image. We only need to do this once.

<pre>docker pull openapitools/openapi-generator-cli</pre>
Then we can generate client stubs for a number of languages. For Java, we would run the following.

<pre>client_language=&quot;java&quot;
docker run --rm -v &quot;${PWD}/out&quot;:/local \
    swaggerapi/swagger-codegen-cli generate \
    -i /local/arrowhead-core.json \
    -l &quot;$client_language&quot; \
    -o &quot;/local/$client_language&quot;
sudo chown -R &quot;$(id -u):$(id -g)&quot; out</pre>
This will generate a number of Java classes, including annotated domain model POJOs for serializing requests and responses.

Note above that we change the ownership of the resulting files using <code>chown</code> because otherwise they will be read-only.

The list of languages is as follows.

<pre>ada
android
apache2
apex
aspnetcore
bash
clojure
cwiki
cpp-qt5
cpp-restsdk
cpp-tizen
csharp
csharp-dotnet2
csharp-nancyfx
dart
eiffel
elixir
elm
erlang-client
flash
scala-finch
go
groovy
kotlin
haskell-http-client
haskell
java
jaxrs-cxf-client
java-inflector
java-msf4j
java-pkmst
java-play-framework
java-vertx
jaxrs-cxf
jaxrs-cxf-cdi
jaxrs-jersey
jaxrs-resteasy
jaxrs-resteasy-eap
jaxrs-spec
javascript
javascript-flowtyped
javascript-closure-angular
jmeter
lua
objc
openapi
openapi-yaml
perl
php
php-laravel
php-lumen
php-slim
php-silex
php-symfony
php-ze-ph
powershell
python
python-flask
r
ruby
ruby-on-rails
ruby-sinatra
rust
scalatra
scala-akka
scala-httpclient
scala-gatling
scalaz
spring
dynamic-html
html
html2
swift3
swift4
typescript-angular
typescript-angularjs
typescript-aurelia
typescript-fetch
typescript-inversify
typescript-jquery
typescript-node</pre>
