= ahf-docker:4.0-lw =

**Disclaimer:* This is Work In Progress (WIP). Please raise any issues you find.*

== Overview ==

This directory contains files for building a Docker image of the Arrowhead Framework 4.0 Core Services (lightweight version).

== Usage ==

<pre>docker build -t ahf:4.0 .</pre>
You can test the image after building it by running the following command.

<pre>docker run -it --rm -p 8440:8440 --name ahf ahf:4.0</pre>
== Environment Variables ==

Any of the properties accepted by the Arrowhead Core 4.0 Lightweight application can be overridden by using an environment variable of the same name (but in uppercase and substituting dots by underscores).

For example, to set the property <code>ttl_interval</code>, we would use the environment variable <code>TTL_INTERVAL</code> as follows

<pre>docker run -it --rm -p 8440:8440 -e TTL_INTERVAL=1000 --name ahf ahf:4.0</pre>
The available variables are as follows. For the purpose of each, contact the Arrowhead Core 4.0 developers.

=== SERVER_ADDRESS ===

=== GATEWAY_ADDRESS ===

=== DB_USER ===

=== DB_PASSWORD ===

=== DB_ADDRESS ===

=== CLOUD_KEYSTORE ===

=== CLOUD_KEYSTORE_PASS ===

=== CLOUD_KEYPASS ===

=== AUTH_KEYSTORE ===

=== AUTH_KEYSTOREPASS ===

=== EVENT_PUBLISHING_DELAY ===

=== REMOVE_OLD_FILTERS ===

=== FILTER_CHECK_INTERVAL ===

=== GATEWAY_SOCKET_TIMEOUT ===

=== USE_GATEWAY ===

=== MASTER_ARROWHEAD_CERT ===

=== MIN_PORT ===

=== MAX_PORT ===

=== GATEWAY_KEYSTORE ===

=== GATEWAY_KEYSTORE_PASS ===

=== PING_SCHEDULED ===

=== PING_TIMEOUT ===

=== PING_INTERVAL ===

=== TTL_SCHEDULED ===

=== TTL_INTERVAL ===

=== LOG4J_ROOTLOGGER ===

=== LOG4J_APPENDER_DB ===

=== LOG4J_APPENDER_DB_DRIVER ===

=== LOG4J_APPENDER_DB_URL ===

=== LOG4J_APPENDER_DB_USER ===

=== LOG4J_APPENDER_DB_PASSWORD ===

=== LOG4J_APPENDER_DB_SQL ===

=== LOG4J_APPENDER_DB_LAYOUT ===

=== LOG4J_LOGGER_ORG_HIBERNATE ===

== Disclaimer ==

Some of the instructions in this document will open ports on your computer depending on your configuration. This is expected. If you are concerned about the security implications, you may isolate your computer through different means, some of them are discussed in the corresponding sections. To further understand the different means of isolating your computer, please refer to the documentation of your operating system and Docker.

''It is the responsibility of the user to ensure security of their system. The authors of any tool contained or described here are not liable for any damages resulting from usage of these tools.''

